ABBY: Last season on Dance Moms...
I produce amazing, employable dancers.
I produce stars.
CHRISTI: Abby is going to make
my daughter the best she can be.
ANNOUNCER: First place...
(cheering)
CHRISTI: It's my job to make sure
all those little things are taken care of
so that she can be the star
that she needs to be on stage.
KELLY: I'm very proud of my daughters.
A lot of the time, they don't show me
that they appreciate it.
HOLLY: Abby can be tough.
I think she produces excellent dancers.
But she demands a lot.
Arms. Pop up. I want it strong.
Take your kid. Take your socks.
Find another school.
Your daughter is holding a national title.
And I will take it away in a minute.
Everyone's replaceable.
ABBY: All this training,
all this competing,
is about the Nationals.
ANNOUNCER: Winner, This Is My Beauty,
Abby Lee Dance Company.
(cheering)
ABBY: You are bright, shining stars.
You're my stars.
This time every girl is going to come home
with the crown on their head.
One, two, three.
We are Abby Lee.
Woo!
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Get up ♪
♪ Get on the floor ♪
♪ My world is with my girls ♪
♪ Living on the dance floor ♪
(upbeat music playing)
(indistinct chatter)
ABBY: Come on, girls. Let's go.
Mom's, girls, get in here.
Let's go.
Hello, ladies.
MELISSA: I'm going
into this competition season
with a very open mind.
And I'm not going to have
any negative thoughts.
I'm thinking very positive.
How's it going?
Where's Holly?
Nia, where is your mother?
She's at work.
Not going to happen.
Yes. She needs to leave work,
leave the job, forget it,
and be here with you.
That's what's important.
Yes? You want this. I know you want it.
I know you love it.
She has to love it for you.
When all the moms are there and one isn't,
I think Nia feels badly.
So I feel bad for the kid.
And I get angry with the mother.
If you're going to do this,
and all the other mothers
are there, be there.
Now, first of all,
you're national champions.
It was a great competition
at Starbound in Lake Tahoe.
That's something to be very proud of.
Then we got to LA, we did a video.
People know who you are now
from watching that video.
But you're a target.
When you walk in,
it's going to be all about
beating the Abby Lee Dance Company.
Brand new season
for the Abby Lee Dance Company.
But everybody is after them
everybody wants to see them fail.
We all know that Cathy is not here.
Because Cathy wasn't a team player.
Where did that get Vivi-Anne?
Nowhere.
I'm going to have an open audition.
A casting call for a new dancer
for the Abby Lee Dance Company.
KELLY: I'm definitely nervous
that there could be
more than one replacement at the audition.
I mean, my kids are always at the bottom.
And, you know, I'm constantly
fighting with Abby.
I mean, how do I not know
that she's not replacing my kids.
Tell everybody you know that we're looking
for a new girl for this group,
maybe two new girls.
Everyone's replaceable.
Are you next?
We know. We've heard. So are you.
First, Mackenzie.
You can't sit on the couch and eat chips.
You're not six and under.
You're seven and over.
And I expect the same thing from you
as Maddie did when she was seven.
Next, Brooke.
Brooke, why are you
on the bottom of this pyramid?
You had a great season.
But then you took a break.
You didn't show up to class.
Paige, same thing.
You can't take a vacation.
New rule, dancing year-round.
Nia, you want to win a title.
It's all about a title.
Every time I talk to your mother,
it gets back to the title.
Your mother couldn't care less
about you winning a title.
She's not even here.
I'm the one who needs to be
there all the time, not my mom.
Because she has to work and stuff.
And she's not a dancer.
Chloe, you're in the video.
♪ It's like summer ♪
♪ It's a brand new day ♪
People recognize you, wherever you go now.
That's pressure.
CHRISTI: Here's our girls
with their first professional job.
My daughter gets the lead.
And she can't make it
to the top of that damn pyramid.
And Maddie,
you're on the top of the pyramid.
Because you won a national title.
Maddie, Chloe, Nia,
you're going to be doing solos.
Now Maddie,
it's not going to be an easy win.
It's nine and up.
And you're on the young side of the age.
MADDIE: I'm really not
that nervous moving up
to the higher age group.
I don't really care if I have
a hard competition,
just as long as I'm dancing.
This weekend we will be
attending Dance Troupes
in Greensboro, North Carolina.
And we're going to do
a new number called, "Sassy Dolls".
We have one week to the competition.
And we don't have a routine yet.
We're starting from scratch, right now.
This is going to be crazy.
All right?
Moms, I'm going to dismiss you.
Girls.
We are the reigning national winners.
These girls need to keep
their eyes on the title.
It's difficult to get on top
and to become that winner.
But it's even tougher to stay on top.
And that's my goal for them this year.
We want to dominate at those competitions.
They are going to be the best.
They are a force to be reckoned with.
And everybody knows it.
(Plush's "Sassy Girl" playing)
SINGER: ♪ Oh, I'm a sassy girl ♪
CHOREOGRAPHER: One, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
ABBY: The group number
is called, "Sassy Dolls".
They're like almost space cadets.
It's a hot, high energy, jazz routine.
Hands at the judges.
Where's this hand?
Well, I think it's funny
that it doesn't matter
that like Chloe got the job in the video.
She's still not good enough
to be at the top of the pyramid.
-Oh, please. Mine are at the bottom.
-CHRISTI: I know.
This hand, ladies, left hand.
Is it on the small of the back?
Is it a baton twirler?
Is it a fist?
Everybody's doing something different.
But what bothers me is that none of you
have the insight
to raise your hand and ask
what it's supposed to do.
Wake up.
Do you want to be the dance captain?
Or do you want to be the one
walking out of the audition
because you got cut?
So take it from there, right there.
Come over here and do the walks.
I don't know.
I think it's going to be interesting,
open auditions.
KELLY: I think it's going to be weird
having somebody else in the group.
CHRISTI: Let's all say a little prayer
that they're not like Cathy.
(ragtime music playing)
Come on, guys. Let's go.
We got lots to do.
Things have been really good
at Candy Apple's Dance Center.
We've got a lot of projects
that we've been working on.
And we're actually going to start
our competition season
a little bit earlier this year.
Go!
Oh my God.
You're hiking her up
like she's a sack of potatoes.
There's a couple
big competitions coming up.
We have a couple scores
that we have to settle.
And when the dance moms
from Abby Lee Dance Center see us,
as well as Abby,
they are going to be blown away.
Vivi went to study with Abby Lee.
They did something
that was kind of unique.
It was a pyramid.
And it was kind of a negative pyramid.
And it was a big huge dissension
about who was always
going to be at the top.
Well, we're going to do a pyramid.
There's going to be
somebody that's at the top
every time we go to compete.
And that person is the person
that will be having a solo
at that said competition.
And the first person
that we have on our pyramid
is Ms. Vivi.
Then we have Sarah.
Then we have Kerisa.
Then we've got Taylor.
And Sir. Justice.
Leading us
into Candy Apple battle is Erica.
Since Erica's doing a solo,
she will be at the top of the pyramid.
And you'll all have an opportunity
to be at the top of the pyramid.
Let's go. Let's get ready.
Let's do some rehearsing. Okay?
We've got talent.
And we've got heart and soul.
And we are determined
that we want to make sure
that Abby has heard us roar.
ABBY: Nia, are you in front of Brooke?
Are you behind Brooke?
Are you next to Brooke?
What are you doing?
You're all over the place.
-CHRISTI: Abby has rendered me speechless.
-KELLY: How about how mean she was to...
-Poor Nia.
-...Nia.
MELISSA: I felt so bad for her.
It's not Nia's fault
that her mom has to work.
MELISSA: No. It's not.
HOLLY: Hello. How's everything going?
Hi.
I spoke to Christi.
She told me that Abby was being harsh,
that she was being unreasonable,
that she even threatened to replace Nia.
How did that whole thing turn out?
MELISSA: I'm a little concerned.
She's getting a solo this weekend.
And you're not going to be there.
-CHRISTI: Are you not able to go at all?
-No.
I wasn't at pyramid.
I'm the adult. Nia has no control over me.
And there was no need for Abby to be harsh
or to take it out on Nia
because I wasn't present for pyramid.
Here you are.
Yes.
Just checking to see
if everything's okay between us.
-Because it doesn't sound like it is.
-No.
The parents were required
to be here today.
Here, I think moms who don't work probably
have a more flexible schedule.
But you know that I work.
-So I cannot...
-ABBY: I don't want to hear a...
If you care,
and you want to speak your opinion,
you be here at the meetings.
I can't believe
this is starting already again.
Abby, let's not go there once again.
You need to be here.
I feel, right now,
that I care more about Nia's success
-than you do.
-No. Well, if you...
Your husband was here.
He walked right in the door.
-Why didn't he stay?
-Abby, if you want...
My dad even took me
to the mother-daughter talk
about getting your period.
My dad took me.
Because my mother was at work.
Oh, my God.
She's talking about her period.
What the hell
does that have to do with anything?
I don't know. But I want to kill myself.
Figure it out. Because you know what?
-Abby.
-The kid needs somebody.
She's not that swift.
-How dare you?
-She's not.
-How--how dare you?
-She needs help.
-She needs you to be here.
-Oh, Abby.
-She needs people to take notes.
-Abby.
You think you're up here
because you have a doctorate.
-And everybody else is down here.
-That's your problem, Abby.
You are intimidated by me
because I do have a doctorate.
Bull! Bull.
-HOLLY: Oh, Abby, don't be ignorant.
-Please. That's it. Go.
(cheerful music playing)
HOLLY: I cannot make it
to the competition this weekend.
Because I have to work.
It is extremely difficult
to bring myself to tell Nia
that I'm not going to be able to make it.
This is the deal.
This weekend I have to work.
Are you positive
that you can't miss work for one day?
I am very positive.
(slow music playing)
It makes me really sad.
Me too.
It's kind of sad.
Because finally dances
that I actually like.
And my mom can't be there for them.
But I will talk to her.
And I will make it very clear to her
that, if she has an issue
with my not being there,
she talks to me about it.
So even though mommy's not there,
mommy is there.
NIA: Okay.
And I will make that very clear
to Ms. Abby.
I am so frustrated right now.
I don't know if I want to stay, continue,
and be a part of this team.
She's working 110%. She's giving her all.
She loves this place.
And that's not good enough for Abby.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: This is the open call audition day
to replace Vivi-Anne.
And I am just thrilled
that so many people are turning out.
There's a line around the building.
-Hi, everybody.
-Hi.
Thank you for coming.
I'm looking forward to seeing
some amazing talent in there today.
Break a leg, everybody.
You all realize why you're here?
You're auditioning for a spot
on the Abby Lee Dance Company's
competition team.
It is not to be taken lightly.
LESLIE: We're here to audition.
I really can't believe
that we have to audition.
We've been here for four years.
And I think it's, you know,
ridiculous that we have to wait
in this line with all these people.
They're all strangers.
She should just be in the group.
ABBY: This is it. Dance for your life.
SINGER: ♪ Throw your hands up ♪
♪ It's party time ♪
♪ All the girls
and the girls are about to shine ♪
♪ Ladies, stand up ♪
♪ Because it won't be long ♪
ABBY: My eyes are roaming the classroom.
789, here we go.
I'm going to let you go.
478, you're done.
276, you're done.
I immediately took notice
of about five dancers
that would be a nice fit.
Now I need to see them jump.
I need to see them turn.
I need to see them kick.
Come on, girls. Give it to me.
That's not enough right now. Let's go.
KELLY: When I looked around
at all the moms,
it was weird to picture
any of them being part of our group.
I mean, we're such a close-knit group.
And just to let an outsider in
is going to be really hard.
ABBY: All right. Take a breath.
CHRISTI: I'm a little worried
about the new mom joining the group.
Just because I'm constantly
looking over my shoulder
with Melissa.
And if I've got another one,
I can only look one way at a time.
ABBY: Next group, let's go.
You need a kid
that's really going to fit in
with the chemistry of the group.
495, you can go. Thank you.
Stay. You can go.
They can't be too old.
They can't be too young.
I don't want another Mackenzie whining.
I don't want another Brooke brooding.
I need someone that's the right fit.
-Thank you.
Thank you.
Look at my little baby out there.
Face directly to the back.
LESLIE: Good lord.
It's like they're in a cattle auction.
ABBY: As you know,
we were looking for one person.
(suspenseful beat music playing)
230, 201, 479, step forward.
(suspenseful music playing)
ABBY: Payton, you know I love you.
You're just not right
for this particular competition team.
So I have to let you go.
It's just not fair.
KELLY: I think Payton was just too tall.
And I know you
don't want to hear that. But...
LESLIE: Well, then put her on
in some other way.
(sighs) Relieved?
201, 479,
sadly, I have to let you go.
Thank you very much.
230, congratulations.
KENDALL: Thank you.
Congratulations.
I was so excited for Kendall.
All of her hard work had paid off.
And I know
what she's going to do with this team.
And I know that they're going to love her.
This is a legacy that you're joining.
She is now one of Abby's kids.
I am Kendall. I'm eight years old.
And I just really believe in myself
that I can show Abby what I can do.
I think I'm worthy to be a part
of the Abby Lee Dance Company.
This is a tight-knit group.
And I'm not going to tell you
that it's going to be easy.
You're on probation
for the first several weeks.
And mom,
there's a competition this weekend.
She has three days to prepare.
I chose Kendall
because she has great potential.
She was the right look.
She's a cute little girl.
She fit in well with the kids.
Thank you. You're all dismissed.
I will see you bright
and early tomorrow for rehearsal.
Okay. Thank you. Thank you all.
Jill.
She's going to come in tomorrow.
I need her for a private
right after school.
I'm going to teach her a solo.
And then I'll be here to have her private.
-Thank you.
-All right.
Hey. By the way, congratulations again.
Thanks, Leslie. Thank you.
-ABBY: Thanks.
-Hi.
Um, I just need you
to explain a few things to me.
I don't understand why you cut Payton.
Why I cut Payton?
She's just too tall.
Come on. Find--you're Abby Lee Miller.
Find a spot for her.
She didn't make it for the first cut.
She just doesn't fit into that team.
-She looks too old.
-Why not?
She dances very mature.
I spent tons of money.
-And you know what?
-I know.
You're a very good customer. I'm not dumb.
And the kid was great.
-Well then tell me what it takes.
-I told her she was great.
What is it going to take?
You would have to cut her in half.
-She's through puberty.
-It doesn't matter.
You should find her a spot.
You bring in these strangers.
Those three girls left after you cut her.
What? They're strangers.
What--you don't know what they're like.
You don't know what they--what?
Is the one going to come from Ohio?
You have no idea what these people
are going to do for you.
-Leslie.
-I do everything for you.
-What?
-Calm down.
-Bull crap. I do everything right.
You need to go home and rethink this.
Try to sleep on your pillow
and think about what you did
to me and to Payton tonight.
-Leslie.
-No. I'm done.
Payton is too old to dance
with those little kids.
Find her a spot, Abby.
Find other older kids.
Find her a spot. Solo, duet, anything.
Give her something.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: I'm rehearsing
everybody's solos today.
I'm rehearsing the group number today.
And nobody's leaving early.
And nobody's coming in late.
They're all going to be here.
And I don't care
if their feet are bleeding.
Maddie is doing a musical theater number
called "Jubilation".
It's about a young girl
whose dreams come true
when she lands a spot on Broadway.
This is going to be
one tough year for Maddie.
She is now competing nine and over.
Star. Diva.
There's kids that I know
that are 10, 11, and 12,
who will make mincemeat out of her.
All right. Let's see it.
SINGER: ♪ She controls the weather
when she starts to spin ♪
ABBY: Nia's doing a routine.
The music is based on the Broadway show,
Once on This Island.
It's very tropical.
She looks beautiful in the costume.
And it's simple.
She does a lot of acrobatics.
I don't want any trouble with your mother.
This is not an ethnic dance.
Holly, once again, no show.
I'm sick and tired
of hearing Holly's mouth
about the ethnic routines.
And I don't want
to hear the mother anymore.
And ta ta ta ta ta ta.
You can look side, side.
Chloe is doing a musical theater number
called Dreams.
This music is perfect for her.
Because she has big dreams.
But she's going to have
to do a lot of work
to make those dreams come true.
Chloe has gained a lot of recognition
from the music video.
Frankly, I think
it's getting to her head a little bit.
What that kid doesn't understand
is all eyes are on her.
Everybody's going to be watching
for her to make a mistake.
How about our new BFF, Jill?
Is she coming?
Yeah. I'm sure she'll be here.
CHRISTI: Probably going to be here
with a big gift for Abby.
(laughs)
I think she's very nice.
-Ugh.
-And I don't know her.
-So I'm trying to...
-You also thought Cathy was nice.
So watch your judge of character.
I like you guys.
But I don't want to be your cheerleaders.
I'm just trying to give her
the benefit of the doubt.
But somebody said
they quit from where they were dancing.
There was like three people
that quit because of her.
KELLY: Melissa says
that people have told her
that Jill is like a crazy dance mom
and that she's heard
nothing good about her.
A couple of people said to me,
isn't it funny
how she wormed her way in here,
after your kids got a music video?
And the next day I walk in.
And here she was, like, taking classes
and coming for this audition.
-Yeah.
-So your reputation precedes you.
MELISSA: Kelly and Christi
already have their guard up.
And they're already saying,
we think that Jill
is going to be a problem in our group.
I'm kind of thinking the same way.
But I'm trying not to judge her.
I'm trying to give her a chance.
And I certainly don't trust people
who are like overly nice,
overly accommodating, sweet, nice.
Because nobody's really that nice.
-So I mean...
-I meant...
KELLY: I think her main thing was...
-Hi.
-How is everybody?
-How are you?
-Hi, ladies.
-It's your first day.
It's my first day.
-I'm Jill.
-CHRISTI: Christi.
-Nice to meet you, Jill.
-So nice to meet you, Christi.
-MELISSA: I'm Melissa.
-Hi, Melissa.
I love Jill's voice.
I think it's very 900 number.
Tight. Cut under.
Cut under. Downstage.
This little girl, Kendall,
is getting the biggest break
of her life she's ever going to get.
And so is that mother.
I am going to put Kendall
in the competition doing a solo
so that I can see
what she looks like on stage.
I'm going to put the pressure on that kid
and see if she sinks or swims.
Then you're going to take a giant step
with your right foot out, and drag.
And throw those arms up in the air.
I'm pretty sure
Kendall is going to be able to hang.
And we came from a studio
from about an hour--
I live locally.
But what made you, like,
I mean, you've been driving for years.
And this is close.
Why didn't you come here before?
Honestly, I never heard
great things about Abby.
I feel this tension between Christi and I.
I would think
she could be a little more welcoming.
MELISSA: But we always beat your studio
-when we went places.
-JILL: Yeah?
-You think?
-Absolutely.
Chloe and Maddie
have gone head to head with Kendall.
And they beat her.
When?
Last year.
Well, Kendall's come
a long way since then.
(indistinct chatter)
-We've all come a long way.
-Yeah.
-We've come a long way.
-I wasn't there. My kids weren't there.
And it is about the win.
Because, let's face it,
we're all here to win.
Christi brings up that Maddie and Chloe
had both beaten Kendall at one point.
So she must feel
a little threatened by Kendall
to even bring that up.
I don't care what they think.
There's a million Chloe,
Maddie, Paige's out there.
But guess what?
Kendall's here.
And she's staying.
Hey, peanut.
Hey, mom.
What do you think?
-I like it.
-That's great. You looked great.
I think Jill
is the queen of the stage moms.
And the whole Melissa, Jill thing--
like they're either
going to team up together
or they're going to be like
to Betta fish and kill each other.
Uh-hmm.
SINGER: ♪ Oh ♪
♪ I'm a sassy girl ♪
ABBY: Stacey.
SINGER: ♪ Oh, I'm a sassy girl ♪
ABBY: Stay back.
You have to take smaller steps.
Turn those feet out.
Well, I wanted a prop.
So I asked Melissa to make a prop.
Because Mackenzie uses the prop.
I wanted it to look like the plastic box
that a doll comes in.
Work it, Mackenzie, bigger.
Competition is tomorrow.
We are leaving tomorrow.
And I'm still fixing choreography.
This is ridiculous.
These kids need to learn
these numbers and know it perfectly.
Why is Brooke upstairs?
She was supposed to get
a drink and come back in.
She wants to go to the football game.
Good! Go to the football game.
And let me call Payton to get here.
Stop writing all over your hands.
Tacky.
KELLY: Uh-oh. She made her cry.
She's a bitch.
ABBY: We're in the final rehearsal,
the night before we leave.
And Brooke just starts to cry.
She looks like a six-year-old.
Whether it takes two hours or four hours,
I don't care.
If you're part of this team,
you're staying until the routine is clean.
KELLY: I can't, for the life of me,
think of why my kids come to this studio,
why I bring them here.
Paige has been yelled at
since the second I walked in the door.
And now my other daughter's getting yelled
at because she has writing on her hand.
Why do I come here?
("Sassy Girl" by Plush playing)
SINGER: ♪ Oh ♪
She's thinking,
this is why I want to quit dance.
SINGER: ♪ Oh ♪
♪ I'm a sassy girl ♪
Everybody's dismissed.
Brooke, get over here.
Brooke.
-ABBY: She's leaving?
-Yes.
ABBY: She didn't try her costume on.
KELLY: Well, she was supposed
to be done at 6:30.
We're over what time we were--
like rehearsal was. So...
ABBY: And then Kelly goes,
but your rehearsal's running late.
Abby, you're wrong.
You're the oldest one in the group.
You're the role model.
And I don't need five other kids crying.
Yes?
Why are you yelling at her
about her hand though?
-Yeah.
-KELLY: Can you think about that?
You know what, Abby? She's a teenager.
She has writing on her hand.
I mean, whose place is it of yours
to tell her what she's allowed to do?
No one's.
And it's not my place to tell your kids to
get their feet off the furniture either.
So I'm not going to do it anymore.
Well, don't.
-Right. You teach them at home.
-KELLY: I never asked you to.
-Yeah.
-ABBY: Teach them at home.
And they're fine.
ABBY: Kelly's not teaching her kids
to act like responsible young adults.
Everyone's replaceable.
Go.
(cheerful music playing)
ABBY: We're about to get on the bus.
We had to get to Dance Troupe.
Costumes aren't rhinestone.
The props aren't finished.
And I was worried sick.
Because there was a snowstorm.
HOLLY: I'm really disappointed
that I'm going to miss Nia's solo
and this group number called Sassy Dolls.
I want Nia to focus on the competition
and not let my absence be a distraction.
Mommy won't be there.
But you have lots of other mommies,
who are going to take care of you.
NIA: I'm kind of sad that my mom
can't be at the competition.
I just have to deal with it.
-Good luck.
-Wait, mommy.
-You'll have a great time.
-Mommy, wait!
Yes?
Mamma's hug.
I didn't want her to see me cry.
It was important for Nia to know
that I believed in her
and that I knew
she was going to do amazing things.
Go ahead. Go meet your friends.
No, go ahead.
If you disappoint,
Abby she can hold a grudge.
And she always tells us,
everyone's replaceable.
Sorry.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
But I have to tell you
that I'm not coming.
I'm trusting Nia with you.
-Wait. I know.
-Okay.
So--but I know she's going to do well.
She wants to do it for the team.
So...
Abby refused to get out
of the car to talk to me.
I had to talk to her through her window.
She would not give me
the courtesy of having
a civilized conversation.
And she was done.
ABBY: Holly always
has something else to do.
And I've had it with her.
It's never about Nia.
It's always about Holly.
(upbeat music playing)
JILL: Abby, Kendall
and I have a little something for you,
for letting us in on your family.
I bought Abby a gift
as a token of my appreciation.
And I wanted to give it to her
in front of all the other moms.
Because I want them to know
that I'm serious about this.
WOMAN: What is it? Perfume and...
Is this Chanel?
MELISSA: Is that the no--
That's the No. 5.
That's it.
KELLY: Jill pulls out a gift for Abby.
I wanted to die.
I was like, oh, my God,
here's another Melissa.
(laughs) A gift giver.
-Thank you.
-You're welcome.
CHRISTI: I would give Abby
a three month trial membership
to Weight Watchers
if I were to give her a gift.
It's the gift that would keep on giving.
(upbeat music playing)
Girls, come on. Let's go.
Here we are at Dance Troupe
in Greensboro, North Carolina.
Let's go. Check it out.
And there is some amazing talent here.
I'm excited to see
what's going to happen on stage.
(calm music playing)
Look at me, baby.
I need you to sit up tall.
I'm going to get this done really quick.
We'll start with your eyes.
All right. Now listen.
You just shot the music video.
People recognize you.
They know who you are.
Do not go out there and forget your dance.
Do not let it happen.
Keep dancing.
CHLOE: It's very hard
to keep Abby out of your head.
Like when I'm at the mall,
sometimes I'll hear Abby out of nowhere.
Now Kendall, remember,
you are still on probation.
What you do out there today counts. Yes?
I'm not really sure what probation means.
I think she keeps saying probation
just because she
wants me to bring it.
But I am prepared to go
on stage and bring it.
New age group, nine and up.
Do not disappoint me.
Get out there.
And do what you were trained to do.
All right. Are we ready? Game faces.
MADDIE: It's not hard dancing
against older girls.
I'm not intimidated by anyone.
I'm not nervous at all.
I'm totally confident.
And I'm ready to compete.
ANNOUNCER 2: Now we'd like to welcome
to the stage contestant number 65.
Welcome, Maddie.
(applause)
("Jubilation Bells"
by The Kinnardlys playing)
SINGER: ♪ Jubilation bells ♪
♪ Ringing from the depths
your heart and soul ♪
ABBY: I'm watching Maddie dance.
And she looks good.
And her face is stunning.
She really told the story with her face.
There's this part where she does
about stealing the scene.
And she really did it well.
She certainly was the star of the show.
SINGER: ♪ Let yourself go ♪
♪ What you waiting for? ♪
♪ Your time is now ♪
♪ You need nothing more ♪
♪ You got love ♪
(applause)
ANNOUNCER 2: Once again,
this is contestant number 65, Maddie
from Studio Bleu.
MADDIE:
I felt really confident with my dance.
I got a lot of applause. And I felt good.
ANNOUNCER 2: This was
contestant number 44, Caitlin.
Up next, we have contestant number 84.
Welcome, Chloe.
(applause)
SINGER: ♪ I got a wish that's only mine ♪
♪ I got a wish
that must seem dumb to you ♪
♪ I'm going to wish as hard as I can ♪
♪ Let me tell you ♪
♪ I want to tell it to the trees ♪
♪ I want to hear it whisper back to me ♪
♪ I'm going to wish as hard as I can ♪
♪ Well if wishes were fishes, the sea ♪
♪ Would be for love
with a million little dreams... ♪
CHLOE: When I'm on stage dancing,
it feels like what I was meant
to do and what I love doing.
And it feels like I'm just being
what I want to be, a dancer.
SINGER: ♪ Everybody loves a dream ♪
♪ Everybody loves, everybody loves,
everybody loves a dream ♪
♪ Everybody loves a dream ♪
(applause)
ABBY: Chloe was good. She was confident.
But there's a big turn section
that she does.
And she goes to the floor.
And she wasn't spotting
the right direction.
She could have done it better.
But she covered it.
NIA: I was very nervous
before I got on stage.
It was really scary.
Because my mom wasn't there.
ANNOUNCER 2: Next is contestant number 85.
Welcome to the stage,
Nia for One Small Girl.
("One Small Girl" by Nikko Lowe playing)
SINGER: ♪ Da da da da da dum ♪
♪ Da da da da da da dum ♪
♪ There's a little girl inside my mind ♪
♪ A tiny little angel from a magic time ♪
♪ And this one girl leads my world ♪
♪ In colors of wonder ♪
♪ And this one girl ♪
♪ Nails my heart in sunshine ♪
♪ In splendor ♪
(applause)
You were amazing. You were.
...so good.
I think I did pretty
well when I got off stage.
I thought it was like
the best solo I'd ever done.
Yay.
No mommy and you did it.
The kid looked beautiful.
I was proud that she stayed on the music.
She covered the ending.
She did a nice job.
ANNOUNCER 2: Up next,
we have contestant number 81
in the performance of Bring on the Boys
from Studio code 513.
Welcome, Kendall.
("Bring On the Boyz"
by Broadway Puppies playing)
SINGER: ♪ That little boys ♪
♪ Bring out the girl in me ♪
♪ You know those boys ♪
♪ Bring out the woman in me ♪
♪ Those little boys... ♪
The way that Jill was talking, I expected
Kendall to be this amazing dancer.
She was a good dancer.
But no comparison to Maddie or Chloe.
SINGER: ♪ ...bring out the sugar in me ♪
♪ So let's... ♪
KENDALL: Before I went on stage,
I was hearing Abby's voice
telling me all the corrections
and all the changes.
But I know I can do this.
SINGER: ♪ 'Cause girls rule the world ♪
♪ That regal king
bring out the tigress in me ♪
♪ So let's enjoy one another ♪
(applause)
ABBY: Kendall looked gorgeous
in her costume.
But the face wasn't there.
The kid was a nervous wreck.
-Were you nervous?
-Sort of.
Okay.
JILL: Kendall was really nervous
at the competition.
Here she's known
these girls for three days.
She gets a new solo.
She really wants to do well for Abby.
ANNOUNCER 2: Are we ready for awards?
-(applause)
-Are you sure?
ANNOUNCER 3: This is Performance.
In fourth place, number 85...
we have One Small Girl as the title.
It's Abby Lee Dance Company.
I think that's correct.
NIA: I got fourth place in my category.
And I'm really happy for that.
Things ended up okay without mom.
CHLOE: I really hope I win first.
I don't want to let my fans down.
ANNOUNCER 3: And in first place
Junior Age Division,
our Overall Award goes to number 84,
Born to Sing,
Abby Lee Dance Company.
CHLOE: In my age category,
I got first overall.
And I was really excited and happy.
Because it's the first solo
of the new dance season.
And it just felt really good
to start off on a good note.
ANNOUNCER 3: And rounding
out our Pre-Junior Category,
in first place, number 65,
Star of the Show,
Abby Lee Dance Company.
(applause)
MADDIE: Chloe and I had
a very high score on our solo.
And we beat some 16-year-olds.
And I thought that was a very
good achievement for us two.
We need to get ready for the group dance.
Let's go.
Kendall, you need to
watch your distended neck.
You need to pull it back.
I just want to know what
your thoughts were on Kendall.
I don't know.
With that probation thing,
I don't want you to like hold her
on that one performance,
when she had three days to learn
-the number.
-This is what this is all about.
If she passed that test,
I guess that's my question.
I don't want to be on probation.
I want to be part of the team.
I want my daughter
to be a part of the team.
I want to get rid of this probation crap
and move on.
I said she has to prove herself.
And she's going to keep
on proving herself.
Everything is going to be a test.
KENDALL: I'm sort of sad.
I think I'm going to be on probation
for pretty long.
-Okay?
-I wasn't prepared.
No. You were prepared honey.
You had...a couple days to prepare.
-ABBY: Kendall. Are you crying?
-JILL: No.
ABBY: No tears.
You save those tears
for your pillow, in your room, alone.
You're going to humiliate yourself in
front of everyone in this dressing room.
-Do not cry.
-JILL: It's okay.
Suck it up, kid. You're here.
You're healthy.
You are one lucky little girl.
Act like it.
What I saw from Kendall disappointed me.
She didn't blow me out of the water.
I was expecting this kid to come out there
and have the whole package.
And she didn't.
So she's still on probation.
JILL: Okay.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: All right, girls. Listen to me.
Everybody can dance better.
You know, this was the first time out.
It was the first competition
of the new season.
You're a little rusty out there.
All of you are too old to be cute,
even Mackenzie.
The girls did great on their solos.
But now it's time for the group number.
And we all know
it's a lot harder to dance together
as a group than it is
to dance alone by yourself.
(upbeat music playing)
(build up music playing)
ABBY: Girls, this is the first time
you've been on stage
since the big national win.
Do you understand that?
You can't go from up here
to down here in one performance.
Guys, you're next. We need you. Let's go.
(screams)
(indistinct chatter)
BROOKE: I think there's a lot of pressure
on me and the other girls.
Because we just won a national title.
So we need to keep winning
to win another national title.
ANNOUNCER 2: Next up, we have set 189,
with a performance of Sassy Dolls.
Please welcome studio
competition code 513.
(applause)
("Sassy Girl" by Push playing)
SINGER: ♪ Oh ♪
♪ Oh ♪
♪ I'm a sassy girl ♪
MACKENZIE: I'm happy
to be in the group dance this week.
For this number, I'm stuck in a box.
And I can't get out.
I finally get out of the box
when the girls come up
and find me and get me out of the box.
SINGER: ♪ I'm a sassy girl ♪
♪ Baby, come on ♪
♪ I'm a sassy girl ♪
♪ Baby, you know
that I'm the star of the show ♪
♪ Come on up and show me
'cause I'm ready to go ♪
♪ I'm a sassy girl ♪
(applause)
ABBY: They looked great.
They danced so so.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER 3: Overall high scores.
In the Pre-Junior Age
Division, third place trophy,
number 193 Freak,
Floyd Ward School of Dance.
(applause)
PAIGE: Altogether I think
we did a really good job.
Because everyone
was really acting like a doll.
So I think we did good.
ANNOUNCER 3: Second place, number 198,
How Great Thou Art,
Floyd Ward's School of Dance.
(applause)
Rounding out the Juniors, number 189,
Sassy Girls, Abby Lee Dance Company.
(applause)
(indistinct chatter)
ABBY: I guess cute
still works in North Carolina.
Because they won.
Is it good enough for me? No.
Is it ever going to be good enough for me?
Probably not.
Girls, you have to get it together.
I said no more sloppy groups.
And you know what?
Brooke, you're too old to be cute.
You're right in the front,
before the whole side area section,
looking across at Chloe to see what to do.
I was just a little bit nervous
that I was on the wrong count.
Every once in a while,
I would look out at Chloe.
ABBY: Nia, you were not even dancing.
You didn't even know
where you were on stage.
You don't want a group dance?
We can just come and do the solos.
It'll save a lot of rehearsal time
if we don't need a group.
CHRISTI: Abby comes in.
And she reams out our girls
for being sloppy on stage.
And the number wins first place.
Back to the drawing board.
New number, starting tomorrow.
KELLY: You're the one
that wants them to learn
a new dance every three days.
Everybody else out there,
I can guarantee you,
have been doing their numbers
more than three days.
How come I'm the only one
that gets aggravated?
Because you're the only one
that hasn't had a child.
No. But I had a mother and a father.
And if they looked at me one time, I knew.
One look.
So I'm telling you right now,
it's 4:30 to 9:30,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, Friday.
Plan on it.
I'm allowed to say the routine
wasn't good.
Most parents value my opinion
more than the three judges.
Whatever, Abby.
I was so frustrated.
I'm just not the kind of person
that's gonna sit back and shut up.
-No...
-I don't have to pay on time.
I'm Kelly Hyland.
I've been dancing for 30 years.
KELLY: I always paid
the whole year up front.
Because I'll show you
my Discover card payment
that shows for the past 10 years,
I've paid you in full.
You're the reason
I don't even take Discover any more.
Kelly, go get a job.
KELLY: Oh, don't even go there, you whore.
Oh, you are a whore.
So welcome, Jill.
-Yeah. Sorry
-Welcome.
JILL: Kendall has never experienced
that kind of behavior from adults.
And I don't know why
they let it get to that level.
Does that happen like all the time?
It does.
Why do they get that heated?
Why does it go so far?
I mean, my God, name-calling.
Don't ever trust Kelly or Christi.
They'll stab you
in the back as quickly as they can.
They do it to me all the time.
JILL: These moms are crazy.
If they ever pull that stuff on me,
they're going to see
a whole other side of Jill.
It seems like the only person
I can connect with right now
is Melissa. I think I can trust her.
If they ever come after me
like that, verbally.
I'll stick up for you.
-Please help me out.
-Okay.
-I will.
-I might need that.
-Well, thank you.
-JILL: You're welcome.
ABBY: This season on Dance Moms.
Suck it up.
I don't want to see those tears.
We are headed to Columbus, Ohio.
You know who lives in Ohio?
Candy Apple's.
ABBY: This season
Abby's taking the gloves off.
(upbeat music playing)
(scream) What is it? Let me see.
Oh, no.
-WOMAN: A freaking apple.
-(laughter)
You need to take your cheap dress...
My dress is not cheap.
Be gone witch. You have no powers here.
ABBY: I can't win with these moms.
It's going to get worse.
I really don't care.
Payton deserves that spot before Kendall.
She's bigger than that part.
ABBY: You have a solo coming up.
-Let's pull it.
-Move along.
(screams)
-You guys never support Maddie.
-Because it's obvious Maddie does great.
I just don't know why
I let my kids do this.
Sick of these (bleep) (bleep)
Was it good?